# Dev Diary Entry

**Date:** Jan 9, 2025  
**Session Duration:** 2 hours

---

## 1. Session Goals
### Primary Goals:
- Initial setup of project

### Secondary Goals:
- Determine task management software and documentation strategy

---

## 2. Progress
### What Was Done:
The primary focus of effort today was on getting initial infrastructure in place for building and tracking the development of this application.  All of the work completed was largely process-oriented, but there were some important decisions made.

**Tasks Completed**
- [EOS-18: Create repo](https://spaceofjace.atlassian.net/browse/EOS-18)
- [EOS-20: Create Jira/Trello for managing tasks](https://spaceofjace.atlassian.net/browse/EOS-20)
- [EOS-22: Dev Diary Template](https://spaceofjace.atlassian.net/browse/EOS-22)
- [EOS-23: Create Project Wiki](https://spaceofjace.atlassian.net/browse/EOS-23)

### Decisions
**Decision 1: Using Jira (via Trello) for task management**
**Rationale:** Using Jira is a part of my typical daily workflow in my existing job, and it is a powerful project management tool.  Trello is now owned by Atlassian, and while I do love it's simpler formate and structure, the free version of Jira actually provides much of the same, plus ways to better manage relationships like Epics to Stories, dependencies, queries, etc.  The downside to this approach is making the tasks/bugs/etc publicly visible is considerably more challenging.

**Decision 2: Tracking progress via these dev diaries**
**Rationale:** Even though logging effort like this will add considerable overhead, it provides a couple of really significant benefits, including protecting me legally (re: usage of AI) and also just providing a deeper insight into my processes for professional purposes.  Naturally, it's unlikely folks will read these all, but some of them may become useful or relevant to my future self, prospective collaborators, or even potential employers.

**Decision 3: Usage of AI as Collaborative Tool**
**Rationale:** Technically a decision I made ahead of this initial entry, but _carefully_ leveraging AI as a tool will significantly accelerate my production of this application.  I chose ChatGPT for this (for now) because of the speed of their development and the cost of their product, though I actually prefer the ethical model of Anthropic's Claude to ChatGPT.  Notably, I am focusing on using it as a research and brainstorming tool, as well as to complete some boilerplate tasks in order to be mindful of certain legal concerns around using AI. I intend to document my rationale here more completely as I think this is fairly nuanced and could cause concern for individuals.

**Decision 4: Hierarchy in Jira**
**Rationale:** The free version of Jira is, of course, fairly limited in its configuration.  This largely should be fine, but there are some open challenges or risks to be considered.  For now, I have chosen to go with a structure of _Epic > Story > Task_ as I think this will cover the majority of types of tasks I want to track.  **Epics** can be used to categorize and manage extremely large groupings, **Stories** will provide a user-centric method to drive feature developent, and **Tasks** will represent discrete, actionable efforts toward these stories.

### Challenges Encountered:
- The free version of Jira is limited in its organizational structure; only three levels are supported, and bug may not be formally supported. (Risk logged.)

### Solutions Explored:
- [Steps taken to resolve issues] 

### Risks Identified
- Bugs may not be supported in my current configuration of Jira (will require further investigation).
- Jira as a tool may be overly complex for managing a personal project.

---

## 3. AI Support
### Problem/Question: Licensing Suggestions
The world of licensing is a complicated space even in the best of times, and while I am more familiar with it than many due to my actual work experience, I also know that I am far from a legal expert on the matter.  I wanted to ensure I protected my code, but I also want to make my code shareable with others, including prospective employers.  If built right, this app could be highly marketable, and I haven't thought through all of the marketing stratgies yet, though I will likely document some of my ideas around them.

### AI Response: Licensing Suggestions
AI suggested Apache 2.0, as well as potentially dual licensing it down the line.

### Outcome/Implementation: Licensing Suggestions
After confirming with AI I would still be copyright protected, I choose to keep my code unlicensed for now, and added "All Rights Reserved" in my Readme.

### Problem/Question: Codename
I wanted a simpler codename for the app for both Jira and Github, as well as something to serve as a better placeholder name (since I haven't yet titled it).  I wanted to derive it from mythology due to my own love of the subject.

### AI Response: Codename
There were many options to choose from, but I focused it initially on Greek and Norse myth (since I am most familiar with those.)  Just as a related personal side note, my dog is named Hermes, so at least we stayed on brand.  :P

### Outcome/Implementation: Codename
I did consider Yggdrasil, but decided on Eos, the Goddess of Dawn to represent renewal and growth since the app is ultimately geared toward building a healthier lifestyle.  Additionally, its easy to spell and very short, so while it is "less cool" than Yggdrasil, it saves me a lot of keystrokes, and makes for a cleaner presentation in spaces like Jira.

### Problem/Question: Generate Epics
Once provided with the general goals of my application, having ChatGPT generate an initial list of epics for me seemed a great way to get some broad strokes for what I think I would need to tackle for this application.

### AI Response: Generate Epics
It generated a lot of potential epics; I expect I will eventually create a word document that includes ALL of my question and answer responses for OpenAI.

### Outcome/Implementation: Generate Epics
I edited some titles and pulled from that a subset (and added a couple of my own) to represent the main areas I want to focus initially:
- Recipe Management
- Meal Planning
- Shopping List
- Nutrition Tracking
- Cooking Workflow
- User Management
- Notifications and Reminders
- Documentation


---

## 4. Next Steps
- Refine dev dairy template to reflect changes made here on the fly.
- Figure out how to track and document architectural work.
- I want to create a Risk Registry early so that I am forecasting against known risks and preparing mitigations. 

---

## 5. Reflections
### What Worked Well:
- I actually hadn't planned to use Jira for my personal project, but I am excited to see how it will improve my task tracking and productivity.  (For the most part, I enjoy using Jira, and I am curious to see how they have integrated some of the best parts of Trello into their systems.)  I also love having a place to docuent decisions made (this dev diary) because often we forget the reasoning fr why we did what we did when we get further down the line.

### What Could Be Improved:
- This dev diary is great, but also very time consuming, so I will have to see if I need to be more slective about the information I track here.

### New Ideas/Insights:
- I need to refine the AI Q/A section of this document. 
